Installation Guide
------------------

Sun Apr 15 09:46:25 CST 2012
There is obviously a lot to write here, but all this should be redundant as soon as the program includes a decent installation loader.

Also note that this being a development jig, which is rapidly changing, there is not too much point writing a whole pile of documentation at this stage.

Having said that, here are some handy hints on getting it running :

1) Database Setup

Lets get the database setup first. Create a database under mysql called 'empire' :

$ mysql -u root -p
> create database empire;
> connect empire;

.. now you can load in the sample database to get running. This is in the SQL directory, called empire.sql

> \. SQL/empire.sql
.. lots of messages about loading records
> \q

all done!


Be careful if you want to wipe the demo database and start with something fresh. Some of the tables in the database are
game specific and therefore easily removed, some are scenario or orbat specific, and removing them will kill all games in 
progress ... other files are system specific, and the data in them is needed in order for the system to run.

There are facilities in the web front end to delete whole Orbats, which cleanly remove just what is needed from the database
and leave all the required data there.

The data structures are changing rapidly with each git update, so dont get too attached to whats there for now.

In the production release, the program will include all the tools needed to purge and maintain the database, and repair
missing data which is required for the system to run. Until then - proceed with caution !!!


1) CodeIgniter Setup

Like any CodeIgniter application, you need to setup a few configuration params to suit your environment.

All the config files are in the :
application/config 
directory.

You need to define your database password (and name of database if different from 'empire') in the database.php file.

Some other paramaters also in the config.php file are worth a look at. This is really dependent on how your web server is setup.

The default install uses mod_rewrite to clean up all the internally used URI's, ie - to get rid of 'index.php' in the addresses.

There may be some issues with using mod_rewrite on a Windows machine if running from localhost. If you are trying to use Windows 
as a web server, then you may be better off running without the rewrite capability. If so, edit the .htaccess file, and run with
the full URI names.  Should be fine as a test machine.

If you want to run this as a hosted server though, its unlikely you would want to run the whole thing from a Windows box anyway ..
I would recommend using a real web server for hosting.

